ECH new deployment API operations documented (#6277)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/deploy/elastic-cloud/manage-deployments-using-elastic-cloud-api.md

# Manage deployments using the {{ecloud}} API [ec-api-deployment-crud]

This page shows examples of managing deployments through the [Deployments API]({{cloud-apis}}group/endpoint-deployments), including listing deployments, getting deployment details, and creating or updating deployments.

For update workflows, the Deployments API also provides dedicated operations for certain use cases, such as upgrades or {{es}} tier sizing changes.

If you haven’t created an API Key yet, you can follow the [Authentication documentation](../../api-keys/elastic-cloud-api-keys.md).

## Common operations with dedicated endpoints [ec_common_operations_with_dedicated_endpoints]

> For common single-purpose changes, use the dedicated deployment operation for the task you want to automate.

Reviewer: this is not necessarily automation as much as a programmatic action (someone might press a button)

"single-purpose changes" reads a little funny - just "common update tasks" ? or something about "specific tasks"? 

can we say something about when we would want to use one or the other? what makes these dedicated endpoints a better option? this might be something to put in the overview but I'm not sure

Author: updated

> - Upgrade a deployment version: [Upgrade deployment endpoint]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-upgrade-deployment)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Upgrade a deployment to a newer {{stack}} version: [Upgrade deployment endpoint]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-upgrade-deployment)
```

> - Get or update component user settings: [Get deployment resource user settings]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-get-deployment-resource-user-settings), [Update deployment resource user settings]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-update-deployment-resource-user-settings)

Reviewer: consider a table: 

| Task | Endpoints |
| --- | --- | 
| Get or update component user settings | [Get deployment resource user settings](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/cloud/operation/operation-get-deployment-resource-user-settings)<br><br>[Update deployment resource user settings](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/cloud/operation/operation-update-deployment-resource-user-settings) |

> - Get or update {{es}} tiers: [Get deployment {{es}} tiers]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-get-deployment-es-resource-tiers), [Update deployment {{es}} tiers]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-update-deployment-es-resource-tier)

Author: already known, on it.

- Attach, list, or detach snapshot repository links: [Create deployment snapshot repository link]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-create-deployment-es-resource-snapshot-repository), [List attached snapshot repositories]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-get-deployment-es-resource-snapshot-repository), [Remove attached snapshot repository link]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-delete-deployment-es-resource-snapshot-repository)

> - Related deployment metadata operations: [Get the tags for a Deployment]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-get-deployment-tags), [Set the tags for a Deployment]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-set-deployment-tags)

Reviewer: always recommend lowercase D on deployments

> Use [Update Deployment]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-update-deployment) when you need to apply broader plan changes that affect multiple resources in one request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the generic [Update deployment endpoint]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-update-deployment) when you need to apply broader plan changes that affect multiple resources in one request.
```

# Manage deployments using the {{ecloud}} API [ec-api-deployment-crud]

This page shows examples of managing deployments through the [deployments API]({{cloud-apis}}group/endpoint-deployments), including listing deployments, getting deployment details, and creating or updating deployments.

For update workflows, the deployments API also provides dedicated operations for certain use cases, such as upgrades or {{es}} tier sizing changes.

> If you haven’t created an API Key yet, you can follow the [Authentication documentation](../../api-keys/elastic-cloud-api-keys.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you haven’t created an API key yet, then refer to [](../../api-keys/elastic-cloud-api-keys.md).
```

## Common operations with dedicated endpoints [ec_common_operations_with_dedicated_endpoints]

For common update tasks, use the dedicated deployment operation that matches the change you need.

> Previously, many update scenarios required using a generic deployment update workflow: retrieve the current deployment details, adapt it to the update request format, apply the desired change, and submit the updated payload. Dedicated operations simplify common tasks and help reduce the risk of unintended changes to unrelated deployment settings.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to talk about the diff like this - should just talk about how it now works

Author: fixed

| Task | Endpoints |
| --- | --- |

> | Upgrade a deployment to a newer {{stack}} version | [Upgrade deployment endpoint]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-upgrade-deployment) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Upgrade a deployment to a newer {{stack}} version | [Upgrade deployment]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-upgrade-deployment) |
```

## Update a deployment [ec_update_a_deployment]

> Use [Update deployment API]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-update-deployment) when you need to apply broader plan changes that affect multiple resources or settings in one request. For supported specific update tasks, use the dedicated deployment operations listed in [Common operations with dedicated endpoints](#ec_common_operations_with_dedicated_endpoints).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [Update deployment endpoint]({{cloud-apis}}operation/operation-update-deployment) when you need to apply broader plan changes that affect multiple resources or settings in one request. For some specific update tasks, use the dedicated deployment operations listed in [Common operations with dedicated endpoints](#ec_common_operations_with_dedicated_endpoints).
```

1. Give the deployment a new name
2. Increase the amount of memory allocated for each {{es}} node to 8 GB

A 200 status code means that the configuration change was accepted.

::::{tip}
You can get the payload easily from the [{{ecloud}} Console](https://cloud.elastic.co?page=docs&placement=docs-body) deployment **Edit** page, customize the zone count, memory allocated for each components, and then select **Equivalent API request**.
::::

> For supported single-purpose updates, use the dedicated deployment operations listed in [Common operations with dedicated endpoints](#ec_common_operations_with_dedicated_endpoints).

Reviewer: I think this should go up to the top of the `## Update a deployment` description, paired with clarity on when you should do an entire deployment plan update like you have above:

> Use [Update Deployment](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/cloud/operation/operation-update-deployment) when you need to apply broader plan changes that affect multiple resources in one request.

Author: fixed
